What's up everybody? Welcome to your
daily digest for Thursday, May 22nd,
where I bring you fact-based,
non-sensational, objective information
about what's going on in the broader
blockchain and cryptocurrency space.
Today, we are kicking off the Daily
Digest with a bit of an ongoing issue. A
Sooie DEX called Cedus um has been
hacked. Currently, there's over $200
million in tokens of potential losses.
Um, and the team behind an onchain
moderating tool developed by cryptocyber
security company Hackin has confirmed
that at least 63 million of that 200
million has been bridged to Ethereum and
that in a single transaction 20,000 ETH
was transferred to a fresh wallet. Um,
in addition to tokens on the decks, some
such as former guest Lumbard staked
Bitcoin LBTC or Axelcoin have lost a lot
of their value, if not all of it on the
DEX. Um, the top 15 losers all lost in
excess of 3/4 of their token price. uh
we can just see just massive amounts of
losses here in these columns right
now. Um though that being said the some
of the tokens have seen a lot of their
value also decrease offchain or well off
of the decks. Um and others have been
able to kind of recoup their value. Um,
so outside of the Cedus decks, LBTC
appears to have gained over 4% in value
over the last 24 hours, whereas Axel has
not been uh fortunate and has lost
nearly
99.5% of its token
value. Trump cryptozar David Sax says
the stable coin bill is going to pass.
as I covered yesterday, the late the
earliest projection for the passing of
the genius act is May 26. Um, and so,
uh, David Saxs expects the stablecoin
bill to clear Senate with bipartisan
pack bipartisan backing. Uh he said, "We
have every expectation that it's now
going to pass following a key procedural
vote that saw 15 Democrats join
Republicans to clear the filibuster
threshold of the Cloer vote. Um
signaling that there is a lot of support
on both sides of the aisle.
The Dubai Regulator
uh Dubai's virtual asset regulatory
authority or VAR has released an updated
rule book for virtual asset service
providers operating in the region that
gives market participants until June
19th to comply with new rules that allow
them to onchain realworld asset tokens
and clarify rules for issuers. Um
Inreina Hever, partner at the United
Arab Emirates based law firm
Neoslogal Legal, told Cointelegraph that
the updated rules clarify RWA issuance
and distribution. She said issuing RWA
tokens and listing them on secondary
markets is no longer theoretical. It's
now a regulatory reality in Dubai and
the broader United Arab Emirates.
Black Rockck's Bitcoin ETF continues to
see inflows, notching a two-week high
inflow as Bitcoin is nearing its own
all-time highs. Um, IBIT's May 21st net
inflows hit 536 530.6 million, the
biggest single day net inflows since
531.2 million on May 5th. Uh, an an
interesting thing to note, the Bitcoin
ETF has not had an outflow since April
9th. Uh, moving on to other uh,
financial institutions, VANC is
launching a fund in the Avalanche
ecosystem. The VANC purpose-built fund
will be available only to accredited
investors and aims to invest in liquid
tokens and venturebacked projects across
various different blockchain and web3
sectors including gaming, financial
services, payments, and artificial
intelligence. We haven't done this in a
while. So, let's head over to the
RWA.xyz XYZ platform and just kind of
show the overwhelming growth of onchain
RWAS particularly from January 1 this
year starting at 15.7 billion moving up
to uh the other day at
22.7 billion. Um, in the list of various
different blockchain networks that
support RWA, Avalanche is listed at
number nine with $177 million in locked
up assets on the protocol. So, this
injection of VANC funds um is an
interesting way to see how uh these
different blockchain networks are going
to attract different funds and different
RWAs on chain. Um into our last two
pieces of news. The jury has convicted
ex Safeoon CEO on all charges which
included
um a conspiracy to defraud the United
States, money laundering and wire fraud.
Long story short, this has been um
capital punishment season for purveyors
of crime in the New York courts. uh
where we also saw former Celsius CEO
Alex Mashinsky
um get sentenced to 12 years last week
or two weeks ago at this point. Um and
we also saw the same court sentence SPF
to 25 years following a 2023 verdict.
And lastly, the Texas House has passed
the Bitcoin Strategic Reserve bill. If
it's signed into law, the bill will
allow Texas comproller to establish a
Bitcoin reserve and invest in select
cryptocurrencies based on market cap
criteria. So, we are slowly moving
towards a United States where various
different states will have Bitcoin and
crypto strategic reserves and maybe even
the federal US government in the coming
year or two. That just about wraps up
everything that happened over the past
24 hours in the blockchain and
cryptocurrency space. If you want to
keep up to date with all of the daily
digests as well as our weekly spaces on
the Smart Economy podcast X page and our
by monthly
um podcast episode releases, then head
over to our subreddit which is backsmart
economy podcast and we will catch you
tomorrow.